***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: system of notation for writing computer programs, a type of written language that tells computers what to do.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: JDK is Java Development Kit, its basically a software development environment for building java applications, it has a compiler, it has a bunch of codes we can reuse, it has a java runtime environment (JRE). it has development tools to provide an environment to develop your java program and JRE to execute your java program.

What is an IDE?
Answer: it stands for Integrated Development Environment, its a software application that helps programmers develop software code efficiently.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, BlueJ, NetBeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:IDE - code/text editor turns it into .java which is a source code- human readable then java compiler will compile this program which will translate .java to .class which is machine readable which contains bytecode file. but the computer isnt able to understand and execute this bytecode instruction. it can be made to understand through the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) which is basically used as an interpreter.it interprets bytecode into machine code to make it understandable. then it can be executed and display the results.
you'll type a source code file, compile it using javac compliler, then run the compiled bytecode on a Java Virtual Machine
What is a class?
Answer: it is a blueprint, an indicator of what it will be about.

What is an object?
Answer: in the java programming language, an object is an instance of a Java class, meaning it is a copy of a specific class. Java objects have three primary characteristics: identity, state, and behavior.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: main method

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:this is so the compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: the class named Object is the super class of every class in Java

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: PATH is the environment variable where we specify the location of binaries. Classpath is the path for Java application where teh classes you compiled will be available.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: an abstract class contains an abstract keyword on the declaration whereas an interface is a sketch that is used to implement a class

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: no, we cant but we can create a refernce variable of an abstract class. the reference variable is used to refer to the objects of derived classes (subclasses of abstract class)

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:restrict the visibility of a class, method, or variable. public, private, protected, default

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: OOP stands for Object- Oriented Programming, they are to improve code readablilty and reusibility by defining a Java program efficiently. they are the following:
Abstraction: a programmer hides all but the relevant data about an object in order to reduce complexity and increase efficiency.
Encapsulation:one of the key features. refers to the bundling of fields & methods inside a single class. it helps us to keep related fields & methods together, which makes our code
cleaner and easy to read.
Inheritance: its a mechanism that allows a class to inherit properties and behaviors from another class. it promotes code reuse & establishes relationships between classes.
Polymorphism:is an important concept, it simply means more than one form. that is, same entity (method or operator or object) can perform different operations in different scenerios.
it has 2 types: method overriding (runtime) and method overloading (compile-time). Polymorphism allows us to create consistent code.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: a package in Java that is used to group related classes. java compiler imports java.lang package internally by default. it provides the fundamental classes
that are necessary to design a basic Java program.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer: it stands for Application Programming Interface- a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to eachother

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: no, this is to reduce the complexity and simplify the language

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: creating methods with the same name if they differ in parameters.
- the quantity/ number of parameters
- the type of parameter
- the order/ position of parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: Java exceptions are specialized events that indicate something bad has happened in the application, and the application
either needs to recover or exit.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: its used for methods and attributes. it is mainly used for memory management. it can be used
with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: is used for classes, attributes and methods, which makes them non-changeable (impossible to inherit or override.
it is useful when you want a variable to always store the same value. you use the final keyword in a method declaration
to indicate that the method cant be overridden by subclasses

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:final is an access modifier, finally is the block in exception handling and finalize is the method of object class

What is a constructor?
Answer: part of every class, its job is to construct new object of that class, it doesnt need to be declared.
its job is to initialize the object of the class

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: if you dont declare a constructor, a default constructor is provided for you.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: it refers to the current object in a method or constructor. it is used to eliminate the confusion between
class attributes and parameters with the same name, it can be used to invoke current class method

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: it refers to superclass (parent) objects. it is used to call superclass methods and to access the superclass constructor.
it is used if parent class and child class have same fields

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:no

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:17.0.7

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:Java Archive

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE (Java Runtime Environment) its an installation package that provides an environment to only run (not develop)
the java program (or application) onto your machine.
JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both.
whatever java program you run using JDK or JRE goes into JVM & JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line,
hence it is also known as an interpreter

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code. runtime is the period of time
when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time

What is heap?
Answer:its a type of memory which is inbuilt in JVM, used to store values and memory. heap is slower to access and read from,
non-ordered structure, no limit on memory size

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: heap and stack

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: string is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized
whereas StringBuilder is not, thats why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:it is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object. its a class that allows only a single
instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: serialization is the process of converting the state of an object to a byte stream.
deserialization is the reverse of serialization and converts the byte stream back to the original object

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:while loops are executed while a condition is true. the condition is evaluated before each execution
do..while loops are executed at least once the condition is evaluated after each execution/ iteration

What is Enum?
Answer: are constant values that are highly unlikely to change, but need to be referenced in your code

What is Iterator?
Answer:its an object used to cycle through arguments or elements present in a collection. its an object that contains a countable
number of values

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits (4 bytes) to store and an integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes)

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: because strings with the same content share storage in a single pool to minimize creating a copy of the same value.
that is to say, once a String is generated, its content cannot be changed.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: it is the process of calling a sequence of constructors. it is used when we want to invoke a number of constructors,
one after another by using only an instance

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector
uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer: Just-In-Time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:when an object is no longer used, the garbage collector reclaims the underlying memory and reuses it for
future object allocation. its the automated process of deleting code that is no longer needed or used

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:no

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:stack: a lot quicker to access & read from, ordered structure, local variables (primitive) & references to objects
heap: slower to access and read from, non-ordered structure, no limit on memory size

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: it allows an executing java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself and manipulate internal properties
of the program. its useful because it allows us to inspect, modify and transform a java program without affecting existing code.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: its a programming concept in which the application can create a small unit of tasks to execute in parallel.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource. its the coordination
of events to operate a system in unison

What is a Framework?
Answer:bodies of reusable pre-written code acting as templates that developers can use to create applications by filling in custome code as needed

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer: Selenium, Apache JMeter, JUnit, TestNG

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit: framework that is open source and may be used to write and trigger tests.
TestNG: is a java-based framework that provides an improved way to run tests

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: gson-2.6.2.jar
        jackson-annotations-2.11.3.jar
        jackson-core-2.11.3.jar
        jackson-databind-2.11.3.jar
        java-json.jar
        javax.json-1.0.jar
        mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
        mysql-connector-java-8.0.28.jar
        protobuf-java-3.11.4.jar
        testng-6.8.7.jar

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:it enables you to turn regular Java classes into managed objects and to inject them into any other
managed object. using dependency injection, your code can declare dependencies on any managed object

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:static binding: works during compile time and performs better. it can be applied using function overloading
or operator overloading.
dynamic binding: works during run time and is more flexible. it can be accomplished using virtual functions