***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:it makes it easy for users to access & work with the data they need in appropriate ways. it frames the organization
of information so that machines and humans can better understand it.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: insertion, searching, sorting, deletion

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:to implement back functuality in the internet browser

What is an Array?
Answer: reference to an object, store data in a linear fashion (next to each other), fixed in size, can only hold one data
type, once you declare & initialize an array you cant change the size

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: an array has both primitive data types as well as object data types. and they have a fixed number of values
ArrayList has only object type data and can change in size

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:its a dynamic data structure whose size increases as you add the elements and decreases as you remove the elements from
the list. the elements in the linked list are store in containers.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:an array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. linkedlist is an ordered collection of elements of the
same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers. array elements can be accessed randomly using the array
index, random accessing is not possible in linked lists.

What is a Queue?
Answer:it represents an ordered list of elements

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer: it is a data structure that follows the principle of Last In First Out

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:FIFO: First In First Out
LIFO: Last In First Out

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: its a tool used to describe the time complexity of algorithms. it calculates the time taken to run an algorithm as
the input grows

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: is when the search item appears at the beginning of the list and is O(1)

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: is when the search item appears at the end of the list or not at all. this would require N comparisons, hense,
the worse case is O(N)

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: its a non-linear data structure where data objects are generally organized in terms of hierarchical relationship

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: it mainly stores connected data. its made up of nodes or vertices and edges

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:Hashmap is non-synchronized whereas HashTable is synchronized, which means HashTable is thread-safe
and can be shared between multiple threads but HashMap cant be shared between multiple threads without proper synchronization

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer: works on hashing algorithm and uses hashCode() and equals() method on key for get and put operations.
they store elements in so-called buckets and the number of buckets is called capacity. they are useful because they
allow arbitrary objects to be associated with other arbitrary objects

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer: its one of the most common errors in Java. it occurs when a program attempts to access an invalid index in
and array. for example, an index that is less than 0, or equal to or greater than the length of the array

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:using variable assignment, create a new array of the same length and copy each element, use the clone method
of the array, use System

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:DFS: Depth First Search- uses a Stack to find the shortest path
BFS: Breadth First Search- uses a Queue to find the shortest path

What is Recursion?
Answer: its the technique of making a function call itself. this technique provides a way to break complicated problems down
into simple problems which are easier to solve

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:linear: the data elements connect to each other sequentially, a user can transverse each element through a single run.
non-linear: the data elements connect to each other hierarchically, thus, they are present at various levels

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
                        Best          Average        Worst
        Selection Sort	Ω(n^2)	      θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
        Bubble Sort  	Ω(n)	      θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
        Insertion Sort	Ω(n)	      θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
        Heap Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	  θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
        Quick Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	  θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
        Merge Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	  θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
        Bucket Sort	    Ω(n +k)	      θ(n +k)	     O(n^2)
        Radix Sort	    Ω(nk)	      θ(nk)	        O(nk)
        Count Sort	    Ω(n +k)	      θ(n +k)	    O(n +k)
        Shell Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	  θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
        Tim Sort	    Ω(n)	      θ(n log(n))	O(n log (n))
        Tree Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	  θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
        Cube Sort	    Ω(n)	      θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))

